I never had much of a chance, if you really think about it.   

And I got to thinking about it because I was trying to figure out how the trauma associated with my PTSD could still be affecting me so significantly nearly 20 years later.  

I definitely didn’t know how to reintegrate into society after spending two of my three-year Army contract as a forward observer in combat. In Iraq.  After the Army, in college, Instead of learning, I leveraged alcohol to remain willfully oblivious.  

That I grew up in North Dakota where there was little socializing anyway probably didn’t provide me much foundation to work from.  In rural North Dakota, what socializing there was to do, was done with alcohol.  From a young age.  

I quit drinking.  And still, years later, I’ve never figured out exactly how to fit back into society without it.  Those little public cues and nuances that many of you all acquired at 18 or 19 just aren’t there for me. Lots of dark, twisted memories instead. 

My professional success - and I’d like to think I’ve had some, despite it all - has been in the federal government.  Even there, the scrubbed, formal nature of the administrative structure - in which I thrive, and in many ways appreciate - is just an echo chamber for the weird societal monologue that’s been going on internally since the Army. 

Up until I met my girlfriend, no one really confronted me on my constant social discomfort.  Probably because most of my relationships were primarily professional.  

I had no mentors by which I could model successful behavior.  My heroes were all soldiers until the day I removed the military from the pedestal upon which I had it lofted in my mind. 

Alas, my girlfriend was starting to uncover a buried better side of me.  But the relationship went off path, never recovered, and ended. 

Which… looping back to the beginning …brings us to here.  Still trying to figure out the basic things, nearly two whole decades later. 

There is, at least, something comforting to me by knowing there is some logical congruence amongst the events in my life’s path so far.  Like, if I step out of my body, I can look back on the chapters of my life until now and reflect, for better or worse, “Yeah, that makes sense.”  

